---
title: Resume
description: >-
  My Working Experience and Education
tags: [about me]
pin: true
image:
  path: /assets/img/Resume_Cover.png
comments: false
---

You can download the PDF Version of my resume:

- [English Version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Xe8GqofLft0gMH7-MnXWyQIHfbFoRrLT/view?usp=drive_link)
- [German Version](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1y5Ng7Gq3AWMFmoXZolEblykL0JtB_cR6/view?usp=sharing)

### Skills

----

- **Programming Languages:**
 JavaScript,
 TypeScript,
 Python,
 Java,
 MATLAB,
 Bash

- **Cloud Technologies:**
 Amazon Web Services,
 Openshift,
 Terraform

- **Other Tools and Frameworks:**
 Jupyter Notebooks,
 NX Dev,
 NumPy,
 Pandas,
 Scikit-Learn,
 Flask,
 SQL,
 Postgres,
 Version Control Systems,
 Angular,
 ExpressJS,
 NestJS,
 Docker,
 GitHub Actions,
 Jenkins,
 Linux

- **Languages:**
 Spanish (Native),
 German (Fluent),
 English (Fluent)

- **Project Management:**
 Agile Software Development,
 Scrum,
 Kanban,
 Jira,
 Confluence

### Working Experience

----
<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">Senior Software Architect</i> | Arrk Engineering GmbH | Munich, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
        Apr 2024 - Present
    </span>
</p>

- Design cloud infrastructure concepts for AWS based on detailed
customer requirements. Emphasize stability, reliability, performance, and security
- Oversee and implement IT infrastructure in AWS for full-stack web applications.
- Design and implement continuous delivery pipelines using GitHub Actions.
- Define guidelines and establish processes for the development of multiple
full-stack applications within an NX Dev monorepository.
- Spearhead reviews and technical analyses of existing applications,
defining refactoring and improvement plans.
- Support the onboarding process of new developers across multiple projects.
- Collaboration with management to plan and allocate workload for over 10 developers.
- Create and document architectural blueprints to guide development teams.
- Align technical strategies with business goals, ensuring software solutions
are scalable, maintainable, and cost-effective.

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">Software Engineer</i> | Arrk Engineering GmbH | Munich, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
        Jan 2021 - Apr 2024
    </span>
</p>

- Developed, maintained, and deployed full-stack web applications within
a monorepository, leveraging the NX Dev framework.
- Implemented front-end development using the Angular framework
and back-end development with Node.js and Python.
- Provisioned AWS infrastructure using Terraform, leveraging
key services such as Lambda, S3, EC2, DynamoDB, IAM, Route 53, RDS,
Step Functions, ECS, and Batch Jobs with Fargate.
- Utilized Docker to containerize various applications.
- Developed continuous delivery pipelines primarily using Jenkins and GitHub Actions.
- Served as a technical lead for an intercultural team of developers.
- Collaborated with stakeholders and customers to define technical requirements.

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">Project Engineer - Simulation </i> | Arrk Engineering GmbH | Munich, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
        Dec 2019 - Jan 2021
    </span>
</p>

- Automated virtual validation processes for vehicle dynamics
simulations developed in MATLAB/Simulink.
- Advanced and maintained the validation toolchain,
with a focus on scripts written in MATLAB and Python.

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">Work Study </i> | Karlsruhe Institute of Technology | Karlsruhe, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
         2015 - 2019
    </span>
</p>

- Worked as a Student Assistant across various university institutes.
- Served as a tutor for lectures on Advanced Mathematics,
Engineering Mechanics, and Simulation.
- Assisted in the construction of test benches and the evaluation
of measurement results using custom scripts.
- Developed user interfaces in MATLAB and Python for the analysis
of topographical data.

### Education

----

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">M.Sc. in Mechatronics</i> | Karlsruhe Institute of Technology | Karlsruhe, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
         Oct 2017 - Nov 2019
    </span>
</p>

- Specialized in Simulation and Information Technology.
- Thesis: Developed a unified, simplified model by integrating clutch
and actuator
simulation models, validated against existing models
and empirical measurements.
This thesis was conducted in collaboration with
Schaeffler Automotive Bühl GmbH & Co. KG, Bühl.

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering </i> | Karlsruhe Institute of Technology | Karlsruhe, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
         Oct 2013 - Nov 2017
    </span>
</p>

- Thesis: Development of Blind Source Separation Algorithms for Noise
Emission Analysis in Various Automobiles.

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">Studienkolleg</i> | Karlsruhe Institute of Technology | Karlsruhe, GER
    <span style="float:right;">
         Oct 2012 - Sep 2013
    </span>
</p>

- Preparatory Year for University Studies in Technical Fields in Germany.

<p style="text-align:left;font-weight:bold;">
    <i style="font-weight: bold;">Highschool</i> | Deutsche Schule San Salvador | San Salvador, ESA
    <span style="float:right;">
         1998 - 2012
    </span>
</p>

- National Highschool Degree.
